README.adoc, before:

:WARNING - GENERATED FILE - DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY, USE THE TEMPLATE AND update-readme.sh:
:toc:
:toc-placement!:

ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

= ID4i CLI

ID4i Command Line Interface

You can use this application to ...

* ... perform manual tasks in ID4i
* ... include ID4i tasks in arbitrary shell scripts
* ... query ID4i manually or as part of existing workflows.

CAUTION: ID4i CLI is currently a work in progress and should not be used in production; at least not
without getting in touch first. More operations _will_ be added in the future.

ID4i CLI is configurable using environment variables, a variety of configuration files
and command line switches. See the <<Usage>> section or `id4i help` for details.

Since we do not have extensive experience in `golang`, we are thankful for contributions and/or bitching and nagging,
especially in combination with pointers to more idiomatic alternative implementations.


TIP: If you need additional commands, feel free to jump in.

toc::[]

== Usage

=== Prerequisites

WARNING: Describe how to add a user and an API key

=== Help
----
ID4i API commandline application.

Configuration:
  You can set global parameters in different locations (ordered by precedence):
  - As command line parameter, e.g. --apikey or -k
  - Using environment variable under the "ID4I_" prefix, e.g. "ID4I_APIKEY"
  - In a configuration file. 
    Default locations are ./.idi.<type> and ~/.id4i.<type> with <type> denoting the file format (json, yml, toml, hcl, properties)
    You can specify a different file using the --config/-c parameter.

  Refer to "id4i help" for available configuration parameters.

Usage:
  id4i [command]

Available Commands:
  guids       GUID operations
  help        Help about any command
  history     History operations
  info        Configuration and backend API information
  storage     Storage operations

Flags:
  -k, --apikey string         ID4i API key to use
  -b, --backend string        ID4i Backend to use, e.g. sandbox.id4i.de (default "sandbox.id4i.de")
      --config string         config file (default is ./.id4i, falls back to $HOME/.id4i)
  -h, --help                  help for id4i
  -o, --organization string   ID4i organization namespace to work in
      --secret string         API key secret

Use "id4i [command] --help" for more information about a command.
----
----
GUID operations

Usage:
  id4i guids [flags]
  id4i guids [command]

Available Commands:
  create      Create GUIDs

Flags:
  -h, --help   help for guids

Global Flags:
  -k, --apikey string         ID4i API key to use
  -b, --backend string        ID4i Backend to use, e.g. sandbox.id4i.de (default "sandbox.id4i.de")
      --config string         config file (default is ./.id4i, falls back to $HOME/.id4i)
  -o, --organization string   ID4i organization namespace to work in
      --secret string         API key secret

Use "id4i guids [command] --help" for more information about a command.
----
----
Storage operations

Usage:
  id4i storage [flags]
  id4i storage [command]

Available Commands:
  upload      Upload new document

Flags:
  -h, --help        help for storage
  -i, --id string   ID4i ID (GUID or Collection) to operate on

Global Flags:
  -k, --apikey string         ID4i API key to use
  -b, --backend string        ID4i Backend to use, e.g. sandbox.id4i.de (default "sandbox.id4i.de")
      --config string         config file (default is ./.id4i, falls back to $HOME/.id4i)
  -o, --organization string   ID4i organization namespace to work in
      --secret string         API key secret

Use "id4i storage [command] --help" for more information about a command.
----
----
History operations

Usage:
  id4i history [flags]
  id4i history [command]

Available Commands:
  add            Add history item
  list           List ID history
  set-visibility Update history item visibillity

Flags:
  -h, --help        help for history
  -i, --id string   ID4i ID (GUID or Collection) to operate on

Global Flags:
  -k, --apikey string         ID4i API key to use
  -b, --backend string        ID4i Backend to use, e.g. sandbox.id4i.de (default "sandbox.id4i.de")
      --config string         config file (default is ./.id4i, falls back to $HOME/.id4i)
  -o, --organization string   ID4i organization namespace to work in
      --secret string         API key secret

Use "id4i history [command] --help" for more information about a command.
----


(statically generated using `update-readme.sh`)

== Development

=== Prerequisites

* Go 1.11.2
* Go Dep, get it w/ `go get -u -v github.com/golang/dep/cmd/dep`
* Docker, if you want to build the docker image. `v18.06.1-ce` and `v17.03.0-ce` are known to work
* If you want to scaffold new commands, the `cobra` generator will help you: `go get github.com/spf13/cobra/cobra

=== Build

* `git clone git@github.com:BlueRainSoftware/id4i-cli.git $GOPATH/src/github.com/BlueRainSoftware/id4i-cli`
* `cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/BlueRainSoftware/id4i-cli`
* `dep ensure -v`
* `go build -o id4i main.go`
* Update the `README` with the current help contents: `./update-readme.sh`

=== Adding new commands

We use the awesome `cobra` footnote:[https://github.com/spf13/cobra] and `viper` footnote:[https://github.com/spf13/viper] libraries.

To scaffold a new command, clone the repo and say `cobra add <my command> -p rootCmd`.


Open the generated command and implement your operation:

* Define your parameters in `init`.
* Validate your input, if required.
* Use the operations exposed in `ID4i` (from `rootCmd`) to call the backend.
* Use the `OutputResult` and `DieOnError` functions from `rootCmd` to report the result of your command.
* Add your command to `./update-readme.sh` so the `README` gets updated with the new command

You can find examples for each step in the existing commands.

==== Updating the API version

The API client is generated using `go-swagger` footnote:[https://github.com/go-swagger/go-swagger, https://goswagger.io/].

To update the client for the CLI, run `./generate-api-client.sh -c -d` from the project root. Note that `-d` installs `go-swagger`
locally and `-c` pulls the current API specification from ID4i production footnote:[https://backend.id4i.de/docs/swagger.json; use the corresponding URL for other environments, e.g. https://sandbox.id4i.de/docs/swagger.json]

Run the tests and make required corrections in the existing commands if applicable. The ID4i change logs footnote:[https://github.com/BlueRainSoftware/support/tree/master/changelog]
are probably helpful.

==== Docker

To build the docker image, run `docker build . -t id4i:<my tag>`.

==== CI

CI Builds live at https://circleci.com/gh/BlueRainSoftware/workflows/id4i-cli, defined in `.circleci/config.yml`.
Note that currently, the build artifacts (binary and docker image) are not stored anywhere, so you probably
need to build it yourself. This will change, promise.

=== Run

After building, you can run the binary w/ `./id4i`.

You can also run the ID4i CLI within Docker: `docker run id4i <args>`. e.g.
`docker run id4i help` or `docker run id4i info -h`

=== Test

*TODO*

* Generate user w/ API key on develop (existing UI tests or curl)
* Have a shell script using the cli to carry out all operations
* Have the script run in CI

Commit message:

Add good first issue link

README.adoc, after:

:WARNING - GENERATED FILE - DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY, USE THE TEMPLATE AND update-readme.sh:
:toc:
:toc-placement!:

ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

= ID4i CLI

ID4i Command Line Interface

You can use this application to ...

* ... perform manual tasks in ID4i
* ... include ID4i tasks in arbitrary shell scripts
* ... query ID4i manually or as part of existing workflows.

CAUTION: ID4i CLI is currently a work in progress and should not be used in production; at least not
without getting in touch first. More operations _will_ be added in the future.

ID4i CLI is configurable using environment variables, a variety of configuration files
and command line switches. See the <<Usage>> section or `id4i help` for details.

Since we do not have extensive experience in `golang`, we are thankful for contributions and/or bitching and nagging,
especially in combination with pointers to more idiomatic alternative implementations.


TIP: If you need additional commands, feel free to jump in or let us know. If you want to get involved, https://github.com/BlueRainSoftware/id4i-cli/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22 has good issues to get you started.

toc::[]

== Usage

=== Prerequisites

WARNING: Describe how to add a user and an API key

=== Help
----
ID4i API commandline application.

Configuration:
  You can set global parameters in different locations (ordered by precedence):
  - As command line parameter, e.g. --apikey or -k
  - Using environment variable under the "ID4I_" prefix, e.g. "ID4I_APIKEY"
  - In a configuration file. 
    Default locations are ./.idi.<type> and ~/.id4i.<type> with <type> denoting the file format (json, yml, toml, hcl, properties)
    You can specify a different file using the --config/-c parameter.

  Refer to "id4i help" for available configuration parameters.

Usage:
  id4i [command]

Available Commands:
  guids       GUID operations
  help        Help about any command
  history     History operations
  info        Configuration and backend API information
  storage     Storage operations

Flags:
  -k, --apikey string         ID4i API key to use
  -b, --backend string        ID4i Backend to use, e.g. sandbox.id4i.de (default "sandbox.id4i.de")
      --config string         config file (default is ./.id4i, falls back to $HOME/.id4i)
  -h, --help                  help for id4i
  -o, --organization string   ID4i organization namespace to work in
      --secret string         API key secret

Use "id4i [command] --help" for more information about a command.
----
----
GUID operations

Usage:
  id4i guids [flags]
  id4i guids [command]

Available Commands:
  create      Create GUIDs

Flags:
  -h, --help   help for guids

Global Flags:
  -k, --apikey string         ID4i API key to use
  -b, --backend string        ID4i Backend to use, e.g. sandbox.id4i.de (default "sandbox.id4i.de")
      --config string         config file (default is ./.id4i, falls back to $HOME/.id4i)
  -o, --organization string   ID4i organization namespace to work in
      --secret string         API key secret

Use "id4i guids [command] --help" for more information about a command.
----
----
Storage operations

Usage:
  id4i storage [flags]
  id4i storage [command]

Available Commands:
  upload      Upload new document

Flags:
  -h, --help        help for storage
  -i, --id string   ID4i ID (GUID or Collection) to operate on

Global Flags:
  -k, --apikey string         ID4i API key to use
  -b, --backend string        ID4i Backend to use, e.g. sandbox.id4i.de (default "sandbox.id4i.de")
      --config string         config file (default is ./.id4i, falls back to $HOME/.id4i)
  -o, --organization string   ID4i organization namespace to work in
      --secret string         API key secret

Use "id4i storage [command] --help" for more information about a command.
----
----
History operations

Usage:
  id4i history [flags]
  id4i history [command]

Available Commands:
  add            Add history item
  list           List ID history
  set-visibility Update history item visibillity

Flags:
  -h, --help        help for history
  -i, --id string   ID4i ID (GUID or Collection) to operate on

Global Flags:
  -k, --apikey string         ID4i API key to use
  -b, --backend string        ID4i Backend to use, e.g. sandbox.id4i.de (default "sandbox.id4i.de")
      --config string         config file (default is ./.id4i, falls back to $HOME/.id4i)
  -o, --organization string   ID4i organization namespace to work in
      --secret string         API key secret

Use "id4i history [command] --help" for more information about a command.
----


(statically generated using `update-readme.sh`)

== Development

=== Prerequisites

* Go 1.11.2
* Go Dep, get it w/ `go get -u -v github.com/golang/dep/cmd/dep`
* Docker, if you want to build the docker image. `v18.06.1-ce` and `v17.03.0-ce` are known to work
* If you want to scaffold new commands, the `cobra` generator will help you: `go get github.com/spf13/cobra/cobra

=== Build

* `git clone git@github.com:BlueRainSoftware/id4i-cli.git $GOPATH/src/github.com/BlueRainSoftware/id4i-cli`
* `cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/BlueRainSoftware/id4i-cli`
* `dep ensure -v`
* `go build -o id4i main.go`
* Update the `README` with the current help contents: `./update-readme.sh`

=== Adding new commands

We use the awesome `cobra` footnote:[https://github.com/spf13/cobra] and `viper` footnote:[https://github.com/spf13/viper] libraries.

To scaffold a new command, clone the repo and say `cobra add <my command> -p rootCmd`.

Open the generated command and implement your operation:

* Define your parameters in `init`.
* Validate your input, if required.
* Use the operations exposed in `ID4i` (from `rootCmd`) to call the backend.
* Use the `OutputResult` and `DieOnError` functions from `rootCmd` to report the result of your command.
* Add your command to `./update-readme.sh` so the `README` gets updated with the new command

You can find examples for each step in the existing commands.

==== Updating the API version

The API client is generated using `go-swagger` footnote:[https://github.com/go-swagger/go-swagger, https://goswagger.io/].

To update the client for the CLI, run `./generate-api-client.sh -c -d` from the project root. Note that `-d` installs `go-swagger`
locally and `-c` pulls the current API specification from ID4i production footnote:[https://backend.id4i.de/docs/swagger.json; use the corresponding URL for other environments, e.g. https://sandbox.id4i.de/docs/swagger.json]

Run the tests and make required corrections in the existing commands if applicable. The ID4i change logs footnote:[https://github.com/BlueRainSoftware/support/tree/master/changelog]
are probably helpful.

==== Docker

To build the docker image, run `docker build . -t id4i:<my tag>`.

==== CI

CI Builds live at https://circleci.com/gh/BlueRainSoftware/workflows/id4i-cli, defined in `.circleci/config.yml`.
Note that currently, the build artifacts (binary and docker image) are not stored anywhere, so you probably
need to build it yourself. This will change, promise.

=== Run

After building, you can run the binary w/ `./id4i`.

You can also run the ID4i CLI within Docker: `docker run id4i <args>`. e.g.
`docker run id4i help` or `docker run id4i info -h`

=== Test

*TODO*

* Generate user w/ API key on develop (existing UI tests or curl)
* Have a shell script using the cli to carry out all operations
* Have the script run in CI
